says that he will stop supplying weapons
to Israel if it launches an assault on
Rafa it comes after the US confirmed it
had paused a weapon shipment to Israel
Over concerns Israel isn't addressing
the safety of civilians let's get more
on this with Phyllis Bennis a fellow at
The Institute for policy studies where
she directs the new internationalism
project joins us now from Washington DC
miss Ben it's good to have you with us
on Al jazer I'm just wondering how much
pressure the US president has been under
to make such a bold statement if I can
just again just quote him saying to CNN
civilians have been killed in Gaza as a
consequence of those bombs and other
ways in which they go after population
centers and he's talking about those
2,000 bombs that the US has sent
Israel this is an incredibly important
move uh first of all every bomb that is
held back by Washington means fewer
Palestinians will be killed we've seen
30 people k just in the last 24 hours uh
in and around Raa uh this notion though
this is not enough this notion that they
will withhold more of the weapons
artillery shells and others if Israel
attacks Rafa does not take into account
that Israel is already bombing Rafa so
this is not the ceasefire that people
all around the world and across the
United States are demanding it is an
important move it does show how the
movement the demand for a ceasefire is
having an impact on the White House they
are desperate to get out from under this
divide yeah I do apologize if I I didn't
mean to interrupt there miss Bennis I'm
just wondering sort of the political
Fallout as well because obviously
there's the social pressure that's
happening across University campuses as
we just mentioned uh now spreading to
Amsterdam in the Netherlands uh but the
in in the last 24 hours we've had this
statement about as you say these weapons
not being Del to Israel a pause perhaps
or a cancellation it's a drop in the
ocean to what's already gone and some
might say it's just too little too late
even it is to put pressure on an Israeli
government that seems to be very
single-minded about what it wants to do
or what it wants to
achieve that's absolutely right I think
that we have to be clear that the demand
for a ceasefire is not being met with
these actions it is important because
because it's never too little it might
be one life saved with one bomb these
2,000lb bombs routinely kill dozen
scores more than a hundred people at a
time from just that one bomb and this
one uh uh package that was being
withheld apparently had more than 1,200
of those 2,000 PB bombs so that's not
nothing but it is very far from what is
required partly because as you say
Israel has received an enormous amount
of weapons from the United States
already and more are underway Congress
has just voted to send $26 billion worth
of military aid uh and related support
to Israel uh in in a in a situation in
which there is no accountability there
is no conditionality for the violations
of international law under which these
weapons are going to be used the weapons
that are being withheld now aren't any
part of that new package of 26 billion
worth this was an old agreement from a
long time ago from several years ago
that only now they decided was a good
time because Israel says they need more
and they're holding it back which is
good it's important and it is not enough
do you think there's any co-incidence in
the fact that the state department were
to issue a report uh about whether their
involvement in the war on Gaza and the
support for Israel that they've given
breaches humanitarian law that supposed
to have been delivered I think it was 24
hours ago according to our correspondent
Mike Hannah who's in in Washington to
secretary blink that has not been
released so there will be other calls
for that that memorandum or report or
however it's being presented to be
released to government officials or to
The Wider public do you think there is a
a correlation between the
two I think there are many factors that
are correlating with this and one of
them is certainly the report which is
now as you say 24 hours late beyond the
deadline but aside from the deadline the
problem has been that an earlier report
indicated that the state department was
going to find that there were no
violations in Gaza that there may have
been a violation some other time some
other place but the extraordinary level
of violations of international
humanitarian law the laws of war that
were found by the international court of
justice to be plausibly genocide there
is no acknowledgement of that and if
that report comes out now saying we
don't find that there are any violations
there will be hell to pay in the
internal dynamics of the Biden
Administration which is divided over
this issue within the Democratic party
as well as on the campuses across this
country and around the world it's not
only the Netherlands it's also Mexico
Germany other countries around the world
are seeing campuses erupting miss Ben
sadly we have to leave it there I'm sure
we'll be talking to you again about this
I'm sure in the not too distant future
always good to have you on the program
and thanks for your time
thank
you make sure to subscribe to our
channel to get the latest news from Al
jazer